fix: Improve language and structure of Switching between external and internal communication (#2110)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/installation-guide/partials/proc_configuring-communication-between-che-components.adoc

[id="configuring-communication-between-{prod-id-short}-components_{context}"]
= Configuring communication between {prod-short} components

> 

Reviewer: Open with an abstract that summarizes the purpose of this topic:

"Depending on how you have deployed Che, select whether Che components communicate by using the internal network or external Kubernetes Ingress or OpenShift Route."

> To communicate together, {prod-short} components use the internal services names, which are exposed in the internal {platforms-name} network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To communicate, the {prod-short} components use their internal services names, which are exposed in the internal {platforms-name} network.
```

> The administration can disable the use of the internal services names to force {prod-short} components to use external {platforms-ingress}. Using the external {platforms-ingress} might slow the traffic and lead to issues because it uses proxies, certificates, and firewalls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the administrator, you must disable the use of the internal services names to force the {prod-short} components to use external {platforms-ingress} in the following circumstances:
```

> 
> Using the external {platforms-ingress} is necessary in the following situations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* To deploy {prod-short} across multiple {platforms-name} clusters. The internal services names are not shared between distinct clusters.
* To deploy {prod-short} across multiple namespaces. The {orch-name} NetworkPolicies restricts communication between namespaces.
* To deploy {prod-short} with the multitenant network plugin.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[IMPORTANT]
====
Using the external {platforms-ingress} might slow the traffic and lead to issues because it uses proxies, certificates, and firewalls.
====

```

.Prerequisites

* An instance of {prod-short} running on {platforms-name}.
* You have installed {prod-short} by using the Operator.

.Procedure

> * Configure the `__<property-value>__` value of the `disableInternalClusterSVCNames` property in the CheCluster Custom Resource server settings. Set the value of `__<property-value>__` to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the **CheCluster Custom Resource** server settings, for the `disableInternalClusterSVCNames` property, set `__<property-value>__` to:
```

[horizontal]
`true`:: To use external {platforms-ingress}.
`false`:: To use internal {orch-name} DNS names.

+
====
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes"]
----
apiVersion: org.eclipse.che/v1
kind: CheCluster
# ...
spec:
  server:
    # ...
    disableInternalClusterSVCNames: __<property-value>__
----
====

.Verification steps
. Specify {prod-short} as the default project:
+
[subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
$ {orch-cli} project {prod-namespace}
----

> . Inspect the ConfigMap properties to determine, which communication method {prod-short} uses. Run the following commands and take note of the output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Inspect the ConfigMap properties to determine which communication method {prod-short} uses:
```

+
[subs="+quotes,attributes,macros"]
----
$ {orch-cli} get configmap che -o \ 
jsonpath='{.data.pass:[CHE_KEYCLOAK_AUTH__INTERNAL__SERVER__URL]}'
$ {orch-cli} get configmap che -o \ 
jsonpath='{.data.pass:[CHE_WORKSPACE_PLUGIN__REGISTRY__INTERNAL__URL]}'
----

> * If {prod-short} components communicate externally, the output is empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * If {prod-short} components communicate internally, the output is following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
If the components communicate internally, the output is similar to this:
```

Author: @themr0c , from what I understand, the output should be exactly the same. Is that correct?

Reviewer 2: @tstastna Yes. I believe this example is even taken from a CRW deployment. But you'd better double check.

Author: I tested it again and it seems to be always the same.

+
----
http://keycloak.eclipse-che.svc:8080/auth
http://plugin-registry.eclipse-che.svc:8080/v3

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
Otherwise, if the components communicate externally, the output is empty.
```

[id="configuring-communication-between-{prod-id-short}-components_{context}"]
= Configuring communication between {prod-short} components

> You can select whether {prod-short} components communicate by using the internal network or external {platforms-ingress}. 

Reviewer 3: can we drop pronouns like 'you' from the official docs? I believe this is a bad practice

Reviewer 3: in general, this sentence looks irrelevant and can be removed

Author: It is not a bad practice. It is compliant with the IBM Style Guide (chapter Pronouns, section Personal Pronouns): 

Use the pronouns that are appropriate for the person of the verb. Follow these general guidelines for personal
pronouns:
- Use the second-person pronoun you as often as possible. The subject of an imperative sentence is
understood to be "you".
- [...]

Author: This sentence serves as the introduction for the procedure module.

Reviewer 3: ack, good to know

> You can select whether {prod-short} components communicate by using the internal network or external {platforms-ingress}. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: I would prefer to keep this sentence. It gives context for the following sentences that there are two types of communication: internal and external.

By default, {prod-short} components communicate by using the internal network. {prod-short} components use their internal services names, which are exposed in the internal {platforms-name} network.

> As the administrator, you must disable the use of the internal services names to force the {prod-short} components to use external {platforms-ingress} in the following situations:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The administrator must disable the use of the internal services names to force the {prod-short} components to use external {platforms-ingress} in the following situations:
```

> As the administrator, you must disable the use of the internal services names to force the {prod-short} components to use external {platforms-ingress} in the following situations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the administrator, disable the use of the internal services names to force the {prod-short} components to use external {platforms-ingress} in the following situations:
```

> * To deploy {prod-short} with the {prod-short} server workspaces engine, the `per user` or `per workspace` namespace strategies and `multi-host` network strategy on a cluster where NetworkPolicies restricts communications.

Reviewer 3: To deploy {prod-short} on a cluster where NetworkPolicies restricts communications between namespaces.

> * To deploy {prod-short} with the {prod-short} server workspaces engine, the `per user` or `per workspace` namespace strategies and `multi-host` network strategy on a cluster where NetworkPolicies restricts communications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* To deploy {prod-short} on a cluster where NetworkPolicies restricts communications between namespaces.
```

[id="configuring-communication-between-{prod-id-short}-components_{context}"]
= Configuring communication between {prod-short} components

> You can select whether {prod-short} components communicate by using the internal network or external {platforms-ingress}.

Reviewer 3: thought that using subject pronouns like 'you' is smth. that should be avoided in the documentation

Reviewer 3: Also, please add the info about default configuration, as I recall starting from 7.34.x internal communication is used by default cc: @tolusha

Reviewer 4: You are right. Internal communication is turned on by default right now

Author: @ibuziuk I added the information, thank you for pointing it out.

Author: From the IBM Style Guide: 
_Use present tense. Use active voice. Use second person (you). Avoid first person (I, we, us). Be gender neutral. Use the appropriate tone. Write for a global audience._

To communicate, {prod-short} components use their internal services names, which are exposed in the internal {platforms-name} network.

> As the administrator, you must disable the use of the internal services names to force the {prod-short} components to use external {platforms-ingress} in the following situations:

Reviewer 3: same as https://github.com/eclipse/che-docs/pull/2110/files#r724876897

> * To deploy {prod-short} across multiple {platforms-name} clusters. The internal services names are not shared between distinct clusters.

Reviewer 3: Do we support project / product running on multiple clusters in general? I belive it is not supported at all atm - https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/18617

> * To deploy {prod-short} across multiple {platforms-name} clusters. The internal services names are not shared between distinct clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

If that feature is not supported, then let's remove this line.

> * To deploy {prod-short} across multiple namespaces. The {orch-name} NetworkPolicies restricts communication between namespaces.

Reviewer 3: Could you clarify what does 'To deploy {prod-short} across multiple namespaces' mean exactly? If it is related to the default deployment (operator in one namespace & per user namespace for the workspaces) in the multitenant environment, then the proper advice would be configuring network policies accordingly - allow traffic from operator namespace to user namespaces, and vise versa.

Reviewer 2: Could anyone help us clarify. @l0rd maybe? I don't know if that is actually supported.

Reviewer 5: Multi cluster in this case means the server components (operator, che-server, keycloak,...) running in a cluster and the workspaces running in a remote cluster. So that's just about 2 clusters. What we usually call multi-cluster (workspaces spanning across multiple clusters) is not supported and, with the advent of `kcp`, we do not plan to support it.

"To deploy Che across multiple namespaces" should probably be "To deploy Che with 'per user' or 'per workspace' namespace strategies on a cluster where NetworkPolicies restricts communications...".

But:
1. With single-host network strategy it's not possible to use external ingress
2. When DW is enabled, single-host is the only option thus it's not possible to use external ingress
3. When NetworkPolicies restrict communications and DW is enabled a user should do what @ibuziuk say
4. When DW will be the default and we stop supporting the che-server engine we should remove the documentation about external services and about running server components and workspaces on two separate clusters (and keep the documentation to configuring network policies mentioned by @ibuziuk)

Reviewer 2: So something like this describes the complete use case of the procedure documented here. Is that correct?

```suggestion
* To deploy the server components running in a cluster and the workspaces running in another cluster.
* To deploy {prod-short} with the {prod-short} server workspaces engine, the `per user` or `per workspace` namespace strategies and `multi-host` network strategy on a cluster where NetworkPolicies restricts communications.
```

Reviewer 3: > to deploy the server components running in a cluster and the workspaces running in another cluster.

This flow is not supported and should not be documented here at all IMO

* To deploy {prod-short} with the multitenant network plugin.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Using the external {platforms-ingress} might slow the traffic and lead to issues because it uses proxies, certificates, and firewalls.
====

.Prerequisites

* An instance of {prod-short} running on {platforms-name}.

> * You have installed {prod-short} by using the Operator.

Reviewer 3: can we merge this pre-req in one and drop 'you'?

Reviewer 3: in general not sure if the second bullet is even relevant and should be dropped, e.g if product / project installed via chectl / crwctl instructions for switching the external / internal communications would be the same - updating CR

> * You have installed {prod-short} by using the Operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

As the helm installer became irrelevant, let's remove that line.
